Widgets 2.0 (#4028)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/graphing/widgets/timeseries.md

---
title: Timeseries Widget
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "graphing/dashboards/timeboard/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Timeboards"
- link: "graphing/dashboards/screenboard/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Screenboard"
---

> The Timeseries visualization allows you to show one or more metrics, Log events, or APM events evolution over time. The time window depends on what is selected on the [Timeboard][1] or in the graph on a [Screenboard][2]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The timeseries visualization allows you to show the evolution of one or more metrics, log events, or APM events over time. The time window depends on what is selected on the [timeboard][1] or [screenboard][2]:
```

{{< img src="graphing/widgets/timeseries/timeseries.png" alt="Timeseries" responsive="true">}}

## Setup

{{< img src="graphing/widgets/timeseries/timeseries_setup.png" alt="Timeseries setup" responsive="true" style="width:80%;" >}}

### Configuration

1. Choose the data to graph:
    * Metric: See [the main graphing documentation][3] to configure a metric query.
    * APM Events: See [the trace search documentation][4] to configure an APM event query.
    * Log Events: See [the log search documentation][5] to configure an APM event query.

> 2. Customize your Graph with the available [options](#options).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Customize your graph with the available [options](#options).
```

### Options
#### Line graphs

Line graphs include two additional parameters:

| Parameter | Options               |
|-----------|-----------------------|
| Style     | Solid, Dashed, Dotted |
| Stroke    | Normal, Thin, Thick   |

#### Appearance

> Graphs can be displayed as Areas, Bars, or Lines. For all graph types, Datadog offers various color options to differentiate multiple metrics displayed on the same graph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graphs can be displayed as areas, bars, or lines. For all graph types, Datadog offers various color options to differentiate multiple metrics displayed on the same graph:
```

{{< img src="graphing/index/metric_alias.png" alt="metric alias" responsive="true" style="width:75%;" >}}

##### Event Overlay

Add events from related systems to add more context to your graph. For example, you can add GitHub commits, Jenkins deploys, or Docker creation events. Expand the **Event Overlays** section and enter a query to display those events. Use the same query format as for the [Event Stream][6], for example:

| Query                       | Description                                                |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sources:jenkins`           | Shows all events from the Jenkins source.                  |
| `tag:role:web`              | Shows all events with the tag `role:web`.                  |
| `tags:$<TEMPLATE_VARIABLE>` | Shows all events from the selected [Template Variable][7]. |

##### Y-axis controls

Y-axis controls are available via the UI and the JSON editor. They allow you to:

* Clip the y-axis to specific ranges.

> * Remove outliers either by specifying a percentage or an absolute value to remove outliers.

Reviewer: as above, explain how specifying a percentage or aboslute value can remove outliers.

* Change the y-axis scale from linear to log, pow, or sqrt.

Change the Y-axis scale by expanding the *Y-Axis Controls* button.

The following configuration options are available:

| Option                | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `Min`/`Max`           | No       | Specify the minimum and / or maximum value to show on y-axis. It takes a number or `Auto` as the default value.                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Min`/`Max`           | No       | Specify the minimum and/or maximum value to show on y-axis. It takes a number or `Auto` as the default value.                                                                                                   |
```
